---
id: '28'
title: 'Psoy Korolenko, Gele bleter mit Shvartse oygn'
locale: en
date: 2012-09-02T00:00:00.000Z
tags:
  - Concerts
oldUrl: >-
  http://shamir.lv/2012/09/02/%d0%ba%d0%be%d0%bd%d1%86%d0%b5%d1%80%d1%82-%d0%bf%d1%81%d0%be%d1%8f-%d0%ba%d0%be%d1%80%d0%be%d0%bb%d0%b5%d0%bd%d0%ba%d0%be-gele-bleter-mit-shvartse-oygn/?lang=en
image: '/images/463.jpg'
---
First time in the town! Concert of Psoy Korolenko on September 02, 2012 in the “Artelis” theater, Blaumana 32. Tickets – www.bilesuserviss.lv. Psoy Korolenko, Russian/Jewish multilingual poet-singer, known as a ‘wandering scholar’ and ‘singing professor’. His unique one-man show balances between folk, klezmer, rap, sound poetry and intellectual cabaret/comedy. As a writer and scholar he is known for his interest to otherness, diaspora, territory, minorities, and borderlines.

The Jewish experience is to him not only a personal story, but also a metaphor of transcultural identity and ultimate otherness. He sings in English, Russian, French, and Yiddish. Two of his eight CDs are recontextualizing klezmer – ‘Un Vo Iz Der Onheyb Fun Foterland’ (Soviet Pop Classics in Yiddish translations and Klezmer arrangements, with All Stars Klezmer Band, Russia -Urkaine – Germany, 2006) and ‘The Unternationale’ (with Daniel Kahn, US/Germany and Oy Division, Israel, 2008). Recently, he is working with Alena Arenkova and Yana Ovrutskaya at a new CD of Yiddish songs to Kadia Molodovsky’s poems. He was a participant, guest and lecturer at many Klezfests in Russia and took part in the program ‘East Meets West’ at Klezkanada-2006. He participated in the Festival of Jewish Culture in Krakov (2005) presenting a show together with Kharkov Klezmer Band. He often performes all over Russia, as well as in Israel and USA.
