---
id: '85'
title: >-
  Riga Ghetto Museum presents a virtual exhibition about Spanish diplomats who
  saved Jews during World War II
locale: en
date: 2021-04-27T00:00:00.000Z
tags:
  - Exhibitions
oldUrl: >-
  http://shamir.lv/2021/04/27/%d0%bc%d1%83%d0%b7%d0%b5%d0%b9-%d1%80%d0%b8%d0%b6%d1%81%d0%ba%d0%be%d0%b3%d0%be-%d0%b3%d0%b5%d1%82%d1%82%d0%be-%d0%bf%d1%80%d0%b5%d0%b4%d1%81%d1%82%d0%b0%d0%b2%d0%bb%d1%8f%d0%b5%d1%82-%d0%b2%d0%b8/?lang=en
image: '/images/1712.jpg'
---
The Embassy of Spain in Latvia, the Shamir Society, and the Museum of Riga Ghetto and Holocaust in Latvia have launched the virtual version of the travelling exhibition “Above and Beyond the Call of Duty”.  This exhibition is dedicated to the Spanish diplomats and Foreign Service personnel during the Second World War, who, without encouragement from their government and often at great risk to themselves, used their diplomatic status to save local Jews from certain death. Old photos and exciting stories bring to life the time of one of the greatest tragedies in the history of Europe and show that something can always be done – if one has a kind heart. 

Given current restrictions, the Museum has prepared a digital version of the exhibition, which can be viewed on the Museum’s virtual guided tours website: [http://rgmvirtualtours.lv/tours/spain/](http://rgmvirtualtours.lv/tours/spain/) . With the kind permission of the creators of the exhibition, Spanish Ministry for Foreign Affairs, European Union and Cooperation, the website presents the full content of the exhibition, including the text and the photographs. 

The exhibition was prepared with financial contribution from the Embassy of Spain and the Latvian Ministry of Culture. When the restrictions are lifted, the exhibition will be available to view at the Riga Ghetto and Holocaust Museum in Latvia until August 2021. Admission will be free. Donations to support museum activities are welcome.
